That is never going to be in the cut.
>> [music]
>> I'm a father to two beautiful daughters.
I'm also a husband,
a son,
a cyclist,
a citizen.
Let's go.
Every day we create mountains of trash.
All the materials in the world, 90%
[music]
of it ends up in some form of waste
stream. No one had ever thought of
temple waste as a source of pollution.
Maybe we need to rethink how we define
waste. There are no limits to what we
can recycle. [music]
We just haven't figured out how to use
it. There's no waste in nature, right?
It takes [music] care of itself. And
treat our trash as an untapped resource.
We turn a huge environmental problem
into resources.
This changes the narrative.
I'm Mik Kalikasto [music] Waldo.
And this is an optimist's guide to the
planet.
>> [music]
>> Yeah. Look Oh, look how it Look how Did
you see the grin on his face? The Oh,
yeah. You're such a sucker. All right.
You choose me.
I want to say stick [music] to the
darker green surface. Okay. That's like
my go-to tip.
That is never going to be in the cut.
>> [music]
>> God.
See, I've got this problem here.
>> [music]
>> Oh my god.
In Denmark, [music]
65% of all waste is recycled,
including 92% of all bottles and cans.
But even the most advanced recycling
can't get rid of everything.
So, what do you do with those leftovers?
In Copenhagen, they come here
to Amager or Copenhill, a massive
incinerator in the middle of the city,
>> [music]
>> which apparently has a ski slope on top.
We need to do this in English.
All right, we'll do this in English.
I've always wanted to come here.
I think it is the most advanced
incinerator in the world.
And of course we recycle and reuse as
much as possible, but
we need to have a facility that deals
with the residual.
>> But
So, what we see in the beginning here
Yeah. is a crane that will put all the
garbage into the
into the chute and into the furnaces. Uh
everyday we get about
uh 2,000 tons waste. 2,000 tons.
>> Yeah.
Okay, so this is all joystick operated?
Okay.
Oh, no. Wait, wait. No, sorry. Sorry.
>> [laughter]
>> You have to make sure that you get the
uh the teddy bear before you go up.
>> Yeah.
Come on.
13 tons.
So, you mix all this and then when
you've mixed it, then what happens? Then
you take it over the side. Uh you see
where this kind of curtains of plastics
are there.
>> Up there.
>> And that's the top of the chute. Oh, so
that's actually the incinerator. What
would you pick from here that would be
okay to put up there? I don't think you
should put it up there. Let him do that.
>> Finn, can you do it? That scoopful there
is about 6 tons and that's 6 tons he
will put into the into the furnaces and
that will produce enough heat and
electricity for 10 households' annual
need. How much do you cover of
Copenhagen? On an annual basis, it's
about 17% of all the need in Copenhagen.
Yeah. Let's go and have a look in the
then the furnaces.
That is the furnace.
>> This is where where you burn the waste.
Can we go inside? Uh yeah, we will go
inside and have a look.
That's the bottom of the chute. It comes
in here. And this room will be more than
850°
and when the waste then comes in here,
then of course it ignites. And all these
pipes on the walls, there's water in it.
Well, you can say that that we heat up
the amount of water that is in 16
Olympic size swimming pools every day.
Every day. From from zero to 100°.
>> 100°. For yes. Yeah. All right. Well,
All right.
Let them work.
This is our the line and it's running.
So, have a look from down. You go up.
That's like a nightmare.
We need to rethink [music] waste and
what to do with it.
What sets this incinerator apart is that
it's only the first step in a much
larger process that radically
reconsiders what trash is.
Copenhill is not only creating heat, but
turning all of its byproducts into
resources, even the ashes. It's so hot,
but it You know, the trash comes down.
It starts burning. Yeah, it starts
burning. You have the slope and then it
starts burning here and gravity will
just slowly move it down.
>> And then at the bottom it's just ash.
>> ash is just ash. And then you collect
that. We collect that.
>> But ash is not just ash though, is it?
>> No, because then you have a lot of metal
in the bottom ash and we actually sort
that out Okay. to be able to recycle it.
And then the the gravel part of the
bottom ash is actually used for road
construction. Okay. So, all this is
recycled.
>> You use everything. Yeah. We use
everything.
It's clear that Copenhill is incredibly
efficient, but where there's fire,
there's also smoke.
Whenever you burn something, you burn
plastics or whatever, you have dioxins
coming out. It's really bad for you.
Causes cancer. This facility is designed
to take out all the dioxides. And it
does. And it does.
All this is actually to clean the smoke,
to clean the flue gas. And the machinery
works really well. There's less dioxins
coming out of the stacks than what you
can measure down in the parking lot.
What comes out of the stack is just
water vapor and CO2. So, we don't emit
any toxic gases.
>> [music]
>> But the CO2 still comes out
because when you burn a ton of waste, uh
the rule of thumb is that then you emit
actually 1 ton of CO2.
That means Copenhill [music] emits over
half a million tons of CO2 annually,
about the same as 110,000 cars. [music]
Can this facility also close the loop on
CO2?
>> [music]
>> This is what we call a demonstration
plant.
And this is catching the CO2.
Hi. Hi, Mikkel. Hi, Finn. So, I'm going
to do this in English. Is that okay?
>> Sure, no problem. Are you the brain
behind this? I'm not brain behind this,
but I am the operator. You're the
operator. Okay, so how does this work?
So, the flue gas goes up and we wash it
with a special solvent. Yeah. Uh and
this liquid is uh
it's a chemical and it bonds the CO2,
liquefying it.
The storage tank is outside Oh. and uh
and that's where the second part of the
of the capture process happens.
So, this is the liquefaction unit. We
can have 40 40 tons of liquid CO2 in
this tank here on site. I have a valve
here in the bottom where I can take out
some some liquid CO2 for for testing. Uh
it will dry it out. It is a little bit
violent. It's and it's violent because
in this inside this tank we have 18 bars
of pressure.
Where Where is it safe to be? So, it's
safe to be behind these bollards.
Um
it's safe for me because I have these
these gloves.
>> Those gloves are enough? Uh yeah, yeah,
I have two pairs.
So, this is the liquid CO2 that comes
out of the tank. I use this this cloth
bag Uh-huh. so that allows some of the
CO2 to escape while the liquid gets um
gets caught as a solid.
Now we have a we have some dry ice in
here and I can just And please to be
careful. It's
>> All right, we'll be careful. It's minus
80°.
Oh, wow.
And if you pick it up without gloves,
you could get serious [music] cold
burns.
It's good enough for use in food stuff
in chemical processes.
We have our
liquid CO2 pump here for filling the
trucks. So, we have been offloading CO2
every other week. Do you ever think
about how important it is for this to
succeed, carbon capture at source?
>> It's essential
to pick up this CO2 and to use it for
for better purposes. It's it's a gift
that we can actually utilize this
technology. It's a dream come true.
Are you confident that we, through
innovation, can solve these massive
challenges we have? It's very difficult.
I guess what keeps me going is the
people I have around me who also think
it's It's
but who who do
a way better job than I can. So, I I
better, you know, step up and
>> and and do my part as well.
Currently, the plant captures 4 tons of
CO2 every day and turns it from a
pollutant [music] into a product.
That's less than 1% of its annual
emissions, but they have lofty goals
that would offset almost their entire
carbon footprint.
Well, I can see you guys are confident.
You have a whole banner.
We're going to save the climate 500,000
tons of CO2 yearly. Yeah.
The question then, of course, is
from what year?
No, I think we will be able to establish
it in 2030. You will then have a model
of a
waste-to-power energy plant
that has no
negative environmental impact. That is
correct.
If we didn't produce
waste, then, you know, we would close
this facility down. But you and I, we
produce waste every day.
Of course, I hope that one day
no waste at all, finish business, go
home.
But I think on the overall, we turn a
huge environmental problem into
resources.
Heat, electricity, CO2,
metals that can be recycled. So, we see
that the whole value chain It works.
>> And it works. Now,
why the hell was it necessary to then
put a ski hill on top of this thing?
>> [laughter]
>> That's a very good question. It was
actually investigated that we should put
it on the outskirts of the city, but if
we were to put it there, then we had to
build connection pipelines
>> Yeah, yeah, yeah.
and electricity, and the city thought,
you know, okay, we'll have the plant
here, but we need to have an inclusive
park where you welcome people instead of
keeping people out. Sure.
>> Of course, Amager is flat as pancake. It
is. So, of course, an architect thinks,
you know, Amager needs a hill.
A mountain. We need a mountain.
>> And then a ski mountain.
>> [music]
>> I sent out a text to all my friends and
family to say, "Listen,
come to CopenHill."
And they they all showed up.
The whole family. They all they all
wrote me back saying, "That sounds
great. We got to be there." And then
today I was just getting looks like
rain,
I got a sore foot, my toe is hurting,
all that bull. But they showed up.
>> This is my my sister's daughter and my
niece Helena and and the soon-to-be
Isak. Well, it is Isak. Yeah. You can't
see him now.
He's going to be the first boy in our
family for since I was born. Yeah.
So, he will be very special.
Very special.
>> [laughter]
>> May I ask you a question? Sure. What do
you think about this place? I think it's
amazing. I haven't been here before.
But
I would never go down there.
>> [laughter]
>> Ever. You walk down? No. No. No.
I love the idea that you can do
something like this in the middle of
Copenhagen.
It is usually you will have your
landfills, you'll have your
waste facilities away from residential
areas because it's
>> [music]
>> polluted a lot.
But most importantly,
we're building these massive things. Let
me let's make sure to remember the
people
who live here, the people we make it
for.
You see this?
>> [music]
>> The team at CopenHill proves that a lot
of what we throw away can be
recirculated and recycled into valuable
resources.
>> [music]
>> By rethinking what waste really means,
we can make it work for us and harness
its untapped potential.
It's a funny thing because you realize
the more we've done this and the more we
learn is that there is no such thing as
as as waste. It's just [music] we just
haven't figured out how to use it. It's
all resources. There's just certain
things that we find very [music]
difficult to
recycle or to reuse, so we just dump
them in a landfill.
Hey, Gaia,
how many tons end up in a landfill every
year from construction waste?
156 million tons of construction waste
ends up in landfills each year. That's a
huge amount. That's a huge amount.
Well, actually, we're going to meet a
lady who's working in construction for I
think 30 years.
And then she realized we don't have to
do that. We can we can we can use fungi
and we can turn it into another
building material. Fungi is everywhere
and it's breaking everything down so it
can be reused. When we go to a forest,
we see all these decaying trees, we see
everything rotting. It's organic waste.
And then we see it like being broken
down and we don't think of that as being
kind of unusual or amazing.
But I've never really thought of a fungi
as something you could apply
when it comes to
modern waste management.
Hey.
Welcome to the woods. Thank you.
Where where are we now? We are in Palos
Park. So, this is Cook County outside of
Chicago.
So, what is fungi? Fungi are mushrooms.
So, fungi is the entire [music] body.
The mushroom is the fruit and then the
mycelium is the root. All of that makes
up the fungi.
So, the root structures, the mycelium,
we're standing on them now. They grow
for miles and miles under our feet.
>> They connect all the trees.
>> They connect all the trees. And am I am
I too much in the sci-fi world or is it
true that we all should believe that
they communicate? They communicate. So,
they can have a mutualistic and
symbiotic relationship where they give
and take to each other.
What do you find exciting about fungi?
Honestly, this concept of no waste in
nature. Uh-huh. How it can [music] clean
things up. It can recycle and degrade
organic materials. [music]
This tree fell sometime and now it's
basically being broken down by fungi.
And the fungi will then be inside now
already. They're already in there.
So, what it does, it it digests like you
and I do.
So, this becomes food for all the plants
around us.
I just see I just got curious to see
what
>> See, look.
All these strings. That is mycelium.
Mycelium. The root structure of fungi.
Oh, I can already hear the the
soundtrack. It's going to be great here.
This piece of wood will be gone in a
year or two, right?
>> Yeah.
Fungi is turning all this into
nutrients, fuel for the next generation,
the next generation. Never-ending loop.
It's a circle of life.
Just to take it a step further, what a
lot of people don't recognize the vital
role of this is their ability to process
carbon.
What's the mycelium on the leaves?
That's different from the one on the
log, right?
>> No, it can be it can grow through
leaves, too. It'll feed off of that.
So, anything that's got a carbon source
to it,
it seeks. That's what it wants to eat.
But the mycelium doesn't just eat the
carbon source. In the process of
digesting the carbon, the mycelium
transforms it into something new.
But those roots, that's what becomes a
new material, a biomaterial. The cell
walls are made of chitin, which is a
naturally occurring biopolymer.
And that's an amazing material. It's a
building block for so many things in
nature.
That's what inspired you, right? Yeah,
so I was wondering
if the mycelium wants to eat carbon in
the forest, can it also eat and process
man-made products that contain carbon?
I mean, I spent decades working for a
manufacturer of bitumen, so roofing
products. As a sustainability director,
we were sending it to landfill and
incineration. We could never get rid of
that waste. When I left that, I took a
course on permaculture design. Sure. And
that's where I learned about fungi.
And it got me thinking, carbon. It's
exactly what we have in our industrial
products.
So, if you put it on your roof shingles
or you put it on insulation [music]
products, it will grow through and
basically creates a new material.
What you guys are doing with your
company Yeah. is saying maybe we can use
the mycelium to break down [music]
construction waste that we don't know
how to break down. Is that correct?
>> 100%. But that's not all. As the
mycelium is eating the construction
waste, it does the same thing it does in
a forest. It creates a biopolymer.
And that biopolymer can be harvested and
can be turned into a plastic [music]
replacement.
That's incredible.
All the materials in the world that we
make, 90% of it ends up in some form of
waste stream. So, we should just mine
the waste, right?
I think we could use fungi to mine those
materials that we we've already created
and stop creating new materials. That's
my big goal.
I can't wait to see what you do in the
lab. I can't wait to show you.
>> Ah. The team is very excited.
Do I Is there stuff that I can do in the
lab? [music] Yeah.
>> Can I get my hands dirty?
>> get your hands dirty. You're going to
have fun.
So, what do you want me to do with that?
Well, it's to see if this is something
they can actually
break down.
This would otherwise go to the landfill.
The The big question is, do they name
the fungi?
The fungi.
If you take that thing that this
insulation that we Now now for now, you
don't know if this is if this can be
broken down. It seems quite impossible,
to be honest. Why?
Well, because you have it is these
different things. You have Obviously,
there's a little some glue in there. I I
guess that. But, you have the aluminum.
And I'm undergoing, how is that ever
going to be You can.
So, the aluminum That just becomes part
of the composition.
>> What you're saying, you're going to You
shred this
>> Yeah. into little pieces.
>> Yep.
And that's what you feed. That's what we
feed the fungi. And then, aluminum will
then be part of the end product.
>> Yeah.
Yeah. And why do you do that? We do that
across the street.
What's the smell?
That's the smell of mushrooms.
So, this is our lab space. This is
Wendy. Hi, Wendy. Nice to meet you. I'm
Wendy.
>> Nice to meet you, Wendy.
Hello. Hi. I'm Katie assistant.
Hi. Nice to meet you. Katie, I'm going
to give you this. We're going to do a
little material intake, then I'll check
back in on it later.
So, Wendy is our director of operations.
I call this her queendom. So, she
>> The queendom? Yeah, she runs every
aspect of it.
>> Please tell me what Get you started. Um
we're going to have Lillian here and
learn more about what's happening. What
What What are you doing? So, I use a
dissection microscope to kind of look at
the mushroom up close. If you want to
see it growing on carpet, I think this
one's a pretty good example.
>> carpet.
And that's what we're processing through
the facility today. So, it'll be nice to
put these pieces end to end for you.
So, what is it that the mushroom will
then eventually do? It's eating through
this, then what happens? The mushroom
kind of wraps its mycelium around the
carpet, and you see it kind of growing
through there. It's a little bit hard to
tell between the carpet and the
mushroom, but it's the more finer kind
of spidery looking things. Oh, wow. Oh,
so so the the fine fine stuff is the
mycelium
mycelium?
>> The mycelium. Mycelium. But, now it
becomes this composite. And so, we might
get that best property of what what was
carpet and the mycelium together.
>> kind of in itself, that combination
creates
a new material that you can then use.
>> It will culminate in a new material.
This is helps the industry recycle.
But, before we get ahead of ourselves,
let's start at the beginning.
Picking the perfect mushroom and growing
a lot [music] of it. So,
um how we start our process off is we
have a culture that's grown up on a
petri dish. Okay, when you say culture
So, the mushroom. So, it doesn't look
like the mushrooms you see in a
restaurant or a store. Um definitely not
like what we eat.
>> Almost more like something you find in
the forest, right?
>> Correct. Yeah. And so, Rebecca's going
to take these and then transfer this
into some nutrients. Do you want to do
this? Sure. Perfect. You need gloves
first.
Everything that goes in here needs to be
sprayed so we don't contaminate it all.
You too? Yep.
Check. Perfect.
>> Thank you.
>> And then, we'll open the plate. This
one? Yep.
Okay.
>> If you need help, I got you.
No, no. Well, maybe.
>> [laughter]
>> Put that in. Just stab it in near the
edge. Okay. And then, tip it a little
bit, scoop up your piece, put it over
your flask, and press.
Tada!
What's the name of this our friend?
Mike? One.
Did you say Mike? Yeah. Huh.
I'm guessing now, but when this grows,
will then grow like this
into the
>> Actually, you can see it growing over
here.
Ah.
>> It'll just kind of go in there. It's a
little tight. Just don't break anything,
Mike.
>> You're all good.
We want to allow it the opportunity to
breathe and grow and to give it all the
nutrition that it needs,
um except for one thing.
And that is carbon.
And so, then when it gets on something
that is a carbon source, it's hungry
[music] for it.
After 4 to 6 days immersed in the
nutrient solution, the tiny fungi sample
explodes in growth. This is the
mushroom. Pretty solid. That is pretty
solid.
>> shaping.
Ready to devour a fresh batch of
construction waste. This is the carpet
right now. We're receiving
just Oh. shredding carpet. So, this has
come from a construction site where
they've um
pulled it out of a building. You don't
want to think what happened to these
carpets.
>> wearing gloves.
>> [laughter]
>> But, then what happens then?
With this? We actually use this mixer up
here. It's going to get thrown into the
mixer and get blended.
That's yeah. These are the mushrooms?
Dump this straight in there. Oh, thank
you.
So, what we're trying to do when we mix
these products is to get as much
mycelium in contact with the waste
material so it can grow through it. And
then, this will go into bins where it'll
go into incubation.
About 7 to 14 days later. Okay.
Oh.
>> [laughter]
>> Can I Dig in. Yep. You can dig in. The
carpet threads. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Go in
here.
Cuz it's still very wet. Yep. It's very
wet. It's digesting the carpet.
Um it's a very cool and magnificent
process. And we see this pretty commonly
across all the materials we treat in
equal measure. If it's rubber, if it's
insulation, um it's the same process
that we undertake.
It looks like a birthday cake. Yes.
>> [laughter]
>> So, the white on top Mhm.
It's not frosting. It's the
That is mycelium. And then, all the way
the root system it it just goes into it.
Yep.
So, this is now carpet and mycelium
composite.
This is so fascinating. So, basically,
this becomes a new
product.
In a way. So, we'll take this and we'll
we'll process it further.
Put it back through that mixer.
From there, it gets broken up and then
placed onto trays. [music]
So, we'll take some of the materials
over to our commercial dehydrator.
So, this is where they come to die. This
is kind of the kill step.
It's starting to dry out.
Very steamy. It'll take about um
anywhere between 6 to 12, sometimes 14
hours to do this. If I then going to buy
something, I'm going to go, "Okay, how
Are we sure that it's dead when it comes
out of this? Are we sure that it's not
going to You add some water, then it'll
come back to life?"
>> Right. Um
we have a quality control station. They
take every batch, and they sample the
percentage of moisture in order to make
sure that it's inert. It won't be
reactive to anything. So,
From here, From here? It comes out of
the dehydrator all nice and crispy.
Um I can show you what it looks like.
So, we'll take this and we'll we'll
process it further after this to get it
down to our finished goods.
So, it's going to be made into this.
This is recycled carpets.
This is Yeah, this is from carpet and
mycelium.
This is replacing polypropylene. So,
this would normally be made out of
plastic.
>> Yeah.
This is just different colors.
>> This is different colors so that we can
meet the specifications of the
customers. So, if you told me that this
was plastic, I'd go, "Yeah, this is
plastic."
>> So, this is from rubber and mycelium.
That's our product in there. Incredible.
Some of these products are automotive
bumpers and dash components. They're
lighter weight. They offer greater
impact resistance. So, this is
>> saying it's better than plastic? Yeah,
it's better than plastic. And you're not
using new resources. You're reusing.
Exactly.
>> [music]
>> Question, of course, for any buyer would
be,
why should I
make the switch?
Well, we're cost competitive, and we're
outperforming.
>> So, you are cost competitive.
>> We are. Cuz I would assume this would be
twice, three times, four times the the
cost. I think that that assumption is
made a lot of times for companies my
size, and that's just not true. Over the
next um 9 to to 18 months of scaling,
we'll even reduce the cost of
manufacturing by 70%, which will allow
us to play in a huge arena.
So, this is what we brought back.
>> Yep. So, this is what we broke up. Yeah.
>> I see the aluminum. I see all of it.
Yep.
And I know you were talking initially
about like the aluminum in here. And
that just becomes part of the
composition. It In a funny way, you
could almost make it even stronger.
That's the whole idea is that we take
the best properties of whatever that
waste product was. It really is an
elegant solution because
there's no waste in nature, right? It
takes care of itself.
>> [music]
>> Um and that's ultimately our guiding
star. We use this word waste all the
time. It kind [music] of gets in the way
cuz it's not waste. It's just It's just
It's resources we just
>> [music]
>> haven't been to
use it. Possibilities are endless.
>> [music]
>> This is so new.
The idea of using fungi.
Actually, there are no limits to what we
can reuse, what we can like recycle.
It's how do we break it down to the to
the basic components?
>> [music]
>> And then when you have once you have
that, you can then use it for anything.
What else can we learn from nature?
Because the truth is we really need all
the help we can get.
MycoCycle transforms waste that would
otherwise stay in the landfill forever.
But it's one thing to fix what's in
plain sight.
Some of our most sacred traditions are
creating massive amounts of waste, too.
And they're among the hardest to
rethink.
I'm Kit. Hi Nikolai. Pleasure to meet
you. How are you? I'm Kit.
>> What are you What are you doing here?
So, this is a temple.
That's Lord Shiva.
So, I'm just worshipping him and praying
for a good day today. I see. What about
you?
You have had breakfast or no? I did have
breakfast. And a good day would be
great. So, we are at the ghats of the
River Ganges. It has a lot of religious
significance. Come, let me show you.
Watch your step.
Wow.
So, this is So, this is
>> the River Ganges.
This is the second largest river in the
world. And this is the lifeline of the
Hindu civilization.
More than 420 million people depend on
this river for their farming, for the
water supplies, for fishing, for
bathing.
This river is not just a river. This is
considered as a goddess.
So, we Indians worship the river.
It is so entrenched or entangled in our
lives.
They're swimming here?
So, they're not swimming. They're
actually
>> bathing. Yeah, they're bathing. They
They're taking a dip in the water
because it's said once you take a dip in
the water, all your sins get removed.
So, that is how holy the river water is.
You can bathe in it. You can take a dip
in the water, but I wouldn't advise
drinking the water.
As industrial revolution has come up,
pollutants were dumped in the River
Ganges.
A lot of pesticides, farm runoffs.
All those mixes with the river water.
Then finally leaches into the ground
water causing irreversible damages.
And [music] there's a refuse from
tanneries, open defecation, fecal
sludge.
So, about 10 years back, I have a
friend. He was visiting. So, I brought
my friend to these ghats over here.
And the water was very dirty. It was
like dark pitch like gray. You wouldn't
even want to touch it. And he then out
of the blue said, "Why don't you do
something about it?" And then I started
laughing. I was like, "Dude, this is the
River Ganges. This is the second largest
river in the world. I can't do anything.
How can I do something about it?"
The moment I said this, a nearby temple
dumped a vehicle full of flowers in the
water.
No one had [music] ever thought of
temple waste as a source of pollution.
As Hindus, we go to temples and we
worship. And we offer nature in its
purest form, that is flowers to our
gods.
Flowers, once they've been offered, they
become sacred. And they cannot be dumped
into dustbins. So, to respect this
sanctity, these are dumped into water
bodies like the River Ganges.
And then I thought that someone needs to
do something about this.
Incence sticks are ubiquitous in Indian
homes. [music]
And I felt uh
why can't we make incenses from flowers?
What we do now is we collect these
flowers and then we convert them into
the world's first charcoal-free incense
sticks.
No, I'm good, but thank you.
Obviously, you're not going to solve
the pollution of this river, but you're
solving one part of it.
>> Yes.
So, come, I'll show you.
So, what part of Kanpur is this? So, we
are in the eastern part of Kanpur. And
this is a very famous temple. It's
called Jageshwar Temple.
All right.
So, now we take off our shoes here.
Okay.
All right.
When you started this idea,
how was and you came to the first time
and said, "Hey, can I just take your
flowers?" You know, It was actually very
troublesome because they were they felt
that what will I do with these flowers?
Will I use them positively? Will I
respect the flowers? How did you then
persuade them? So, I said to one priest,
"These flowers don't belong to you. They
don't belong to me. These flowers belong
to the gods." It was God's will. Yeah.
And you can't go against God's will. In
the Hindu prayer, there's this line
which says "Tera tujhko arpan."
Whatever belongs to the gods is going
back to the gods. Yeah. Come with me.
Come.
Who is this? Yes. Come.
What are they singing?
They are singing the the belief in this
my god. For us, it's like real
manifestation of god over there.
Praying for the
well-being of our family, the planet,
etc.
And all this is stuff they're giving to
the gods.
>> Yes.
These flowers have been offered to these
gods.
So, similar thing happens in all the
temples in India. Yeah.
Depending on the size of the temple, so
this temple generates about 100 kg of
waste every single
Now, we'll collect the flowers.
So, they from out here they basically
dump it into the
>> They dump it in here and we collect it
in our bins and we take it to our unit
where we process these flowers. And this
is of course not just flowers. It's also
Yeah, yeah, yeah. And also we first
segregate all the waste material. Once
you go to the factory tomorrow, you
wouldn't be able to realize that this is
the same waste that you have seen today.
So, come, I'll show you.
You were asking me what happens to these
flowers. Wow. This is the first entry
point. These flowers will get sorted.
This is less than a ton.
And then after that it goes to
These flowers will be now washed.
So, that removes most of the pesticide
residues.
Come.
Hello.
Oh, wow.
So, now this is sorted marigold. And
it's drying now or is Yeah, yeah, it's
drying now.
This is the powdered marigold. You can
smell.
Mhm. Amazing. So, then these are mixed
with water to make a dough.
And this is basically what becomes
incense. Yes. Hello.
Preeti.
Preeti. How do you make a stick?
And show me how you do it.
All right. Okay, yeah. I'll come over.
Oh. Powder, powder, please. Powder here?
And you make how many how many an hour?
She can make 800 sticks in 1 hour.
800?
How long have you done this?
What's great about this job?
And what are you learning?
Wow. Amazing.
Thank you. Thank you so much for talking
to us. Thank you. Thank you.
She's saying he's not the owner. I am
the owner.
As of now, we employ around more than
750 people across our six locations.
The thing that's closest to my heart is
the choice of people that we've been
able to employ.
If they wouldn't be working over here,
they would be doing menial jobs cleaning
drains or cleaning the streets.
Earlier, they were being told that you
were good for nothing. Now, they are the
ones who bring money to their families.
>> [music]
>> And it is not just about financial
livelihoods, but it is also about
leading a life of dignity and respect.
>> [music]
>> While we were started selling incense,
incense sticks have a limited market.
And I felt that if you have to like
really solve the flower problem, I need
products which have bigger market sizes.
>> [music]
>> Innovation needs curiosity as its spark.
Just like we learned in Chicago, the
[music] most surprising solutions are
hiding in plain sight, just waiting to
be discovered. So, here is the material.
Oh, this is very soft, huh? Yeah.
This is actual leather.
Flower and leather.
Yeah.
I mean, you you have a really good
business making incense.
>> Yes.
Why suddenly in the flower? There was
actually an unused flower pile. Sure. Uh
we observed a white layer. Like like
like fungi or Yeah. Yeah. And the touch
of that particular layer similar to
leather, and can we replicate this
phenomena into our labs try to come up
with a product that can give you
leather-like material.
>> [music]
>> Right. These are the dried petals. Yeah.
So, the purpose of the boiling is
basically extracting [music]
the nutrients. It's like a soup. Yeah,
it's like a soup in a way. We all eat
nutritional media.
So, first is with the flask.
Yeah. And second is with [music] the
tray.
And we allow the flower petals also into
the liquid.
>> Yeah.
This goes for sterilization.
>> [music]
>> My gosh.
All right, let's go.
Please come.
So, this is our culture. And this is the
flask that we created outside.
>> Yeah. Like this.
Yeah. This reminds me of Chicago.
I'll show you what it looks like once
it's done. Hurry up.
It has grown.
Can you smell the flower?
>> Yes. Absolutely. Yeah.
Oh, yes. This is all the fungi basically
completely creating this
>> Yes. this new material.
>> Yes. It's amazing.
>> It is.
Yeah.
As the sheet gets out, it is generally
treated
in a tank like this. Oh, yes. Yeah. And
this looks like a a tanning place.
>> Yes.
And and I can let you touch it directly
because this is not an hazardous
chemical. Uh so, this red solution Yeah.
it's derived from a certain vegetable
bark, and you just make a solution and
you keep the sheet dipped. Yeah. And
then after that Yeah. is it then drying
time? Yes.
One thing is seeing it and getting the
idea.
Another thing is executing.
There's nothing like what you've done
with the with the incense.
>> is absolutely different. Completely
different. It's like a different
company. Yes. How close are you to being
able to take this to market?
>> you
we can't name the company on the camera.
So, it will be public
they're trying to do a fashion week in
Milan. That is where they will launch
their flower collection. This massive
brand is going to have products on the
shelves. This is one of the
shoe samples from them. This is your
size. We make cute dresses as well.
Wow.
Did it feel a little antique? We tried
to make it something that can remind you
of Game of Thrones.
>> [laughter]
>> When we go back to the origin story,
right? Cleaning up the Ganges. One of
the biggest polluters is the tanneries.
India almost supplies around 12.3% of
the earth's leather. So, all the
processing is done using tannins which
are then
either put into the rivers or put into
the ground where it causes severe
pollution. Flower would be a very big
deal for the Ganges reason being it's
ultra sustainable. It's not sustainable,
it's ultra sustainable. And again, this
was a beautiful coincidence. You looked
in the corner, it was just moldy, and
then
acting on the impulse going, "Hang on a
second, we can do that." It's it's
incredible.
And now I'm standing in your shoes.
>> [music]
>> Then
This is what we are talking about,
right? Yes.
This must be a decoration, and this is
fresh.
You pick up every day? Yeah. 30 tons. 30
to 35. 30 tons of flower petals.
We'll keep it here.
Couldn't imagine that you doing this
with something [music] so on the surface
insignificant as flower petals make a
positive difference like cleaning up
this river.
What we've been able to do is we've been
able to set example that you can make
things out of waste. This is what I call
a systemic [music] change because a lot
of people want to like
feel that hope yes, something can be
done.
But to be very honest, what drives me is
the choice of people that we've been
able to employ. Dignified livelihoods
are rare that can bring a person out of
the clutches of what they were doing.
The same person who was earlier clean
cleaning drains. Now, that very person
is helping you clean the river Ganges
which is a goddess. Yeah. So, the way
you look at the person changes.
The work that we are doing is not just
about cleaning up waste,
but also cleaning up what our earlier
generations have done.
This changes the narrative.
>> [singing and music]
[singing]
[music]
[singing and music]